=head1 NAME

uiautomatorviewer - a GUI tool to scan and analyze the UI components of an
Android application.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

uiautomatorviewer

=head1 DESCRIPTION

You can use the uiautomatorviewer tool to take a snapshot of the foreground UI
screen on any Android device that is connected to your development machine. The
uiautomatorviewer tool provides a convenient visual interface to inspect the
layout hierarchy and view the properties of the individual UI components that
are displayed on the test device. Using this information, you can later create
uiautomator tests with selector objects that target specific UI components to
test.

To analyze the UI components of the application that you want to test:

=over 3

=item 1.

Connect your Android device to your development machine.

=item 2.

Run the uiautomatorviewer tool.

=item 3.

To capture a screen for analysis, click the Device Screenshot button in the GUI
of the uiautomatorviewer tool.

B<Note:> If you have more than one device connected, specify the device for
screen capture by setting the ANDROID_SERIAL environment variable:

=over 4

Find the serial numbers for your connected devices by running this command:

$ adb devices

Set the ANDROID_SERIAL environment variable to select the device to test:

$ export ANDROID_SERIAL=<device serial number>

If you are connected to only a single device, you do not need to set the
ANDROID_SERIAL environment variable.

=back

=item 4.

View the UI properties for your application:

=over 4

Hover over the snapshot in the left-hand panel to see the UI components
identified by the uiautomatorviewer tool. You can view the component’s
properties listed in the lower right-hand panel, and the layout hierarchy in
the upper right-hand panel.

Optionally, click on the Toggle NAF Nodes button to see UI components that are
not accessible to the uiautomator testing framework. Only limited information
may be available for these components.

=back

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This manual page is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

Copyright (C) 2013 Android Open Source Project

Copyright (C) 2013 Jakub Adam <jakub.adam@ktknet.cz>
